reports/Assignment-2-Report.md, before:

# Assignment Report

# Part 1

## 1. Schemas for a set of constraints for tenant service agreement:
Tenant 1 has a massive amount IoT sensors sending data periodically so they get a better price for the greater amount and have a higher priority. (payment group 1)
Tenant 1 wants to store all of the given data and the processed aggregate data, which leads to them requiring a lot more resources.
### tenant1_schema_constraints:
```json
{
    "tenantId": "1",
    "paymentGroup": "1",
    "data_file_constraints": {
        "file_format": "JSON",
        "max_num_of_files": 10,
        "max_file_size": "10MB"
    },
    "service_agreement_constraints": {
        "agreement_duration_months": 12,
        "cost_per_MB_in_euro": 0.01,
        "service_availability_in_percent": 99
    }
}
```

Tenant 2 sends less IoT sensor data inconsistently so they have more restrictions and more expensive service costs and has lower priority than tenant 1. (payment group 2)
Tenant 2 wants to store only the aggregate data processed from the raw data which takes up less resources but generates less revenue.
### tenant2_schema_constraints:
```json
{
    "tenantId": "2",
    "paymentGroup": "2",
    "data_file_constraints": {
        "file_format": "JSON",
        "max_num_of_files": 5,
        "max_file_size": "5MB"
    },
    "service_agreement_constraints": {
        "agreement_duration_months": 6,
        "cost_per_MB_in_euro": 0.02,
        "service_availability_in_percent": 95
    }
}
```


## 2. clientbatchingestapp:
- read_input_files: read input files in client-staging-input-directory
- data_wrangler: add a new properties "client_id" and "client_name"
- ingestion: start ingesting to mysimbd-coredms by informing mysimbdp-batchingestmanager about the data to be sent.
- Data used for testing: null


## 3. mysimbdp-batchingestmanager bounded:
- Tenant registry (either api paths in the database OR a configuration file within the program OR "tenant_id" in service-agreement.json)
    - Retrieved from database in mysimbdp-coredms tenant/agreements where the service agreements for the tenants are with the tenant id:s.
- Scheduler (Per tentant to schedule: Round-robin, Priority-based or Resource aware scheduling)
- Executor (Execute ingestion pipeline for chosen tenants data)

- Uses Apache Kafka: The cluster of brokers and api to create producers and consumers in mysimbdp developed in assignment one.
- Tenants can can send their data to be ingested and the mysimbdp-batchingestmanager schedules the ingestion jobs and calls mysimbdp-daas ingestion api.
- Data sent as large batches at specific times somehow.
- Mysimbdp-daas creates the producers and consumers based on the mysimbdp-batchingestmanager scheduling in order to ingest data into mysimbdp-coredms (MongoDB).
- (Maybe batchProcessor with Spark or Hadoop after Kafka brokers to ingest processed data to into mysimbdp-coredms (MongoDB).)




## 4. Multi-tenancy model in mysimbdp:
The client first puts files to the input-directory withing the core application of the platform and the input directory calls the manager and the manager calls the clients ingestion app that calls the input-directory for the files

#### Shared:
- Mysimbdp-coredms shared between all tenants.
- Mysimbdp-batchingestmanager is used to manage all tenants mysimbdp-clientbatchingestingapp.
#### Individual:
- Tenants will have individual staging input directories defined in mysimbdp-clientbatchingestapp.
- Tenants will have individual nodes in the database for their data.
- Tenants will have individual kafka producers and consumers that are created when they send data to be ingested and the mysimbdp-batchingestmanager calls the api mysimbdp-daas.
- Tenants have individual service agreement contracts that define schemas for the client data.

Performance for ingestion tests for both tenants individually and together (with failures).
With different constraints.
Show example of data not being ingested due to violation of constraints in the service agreement.
Maximum amount of data per second in tests (Max system load capacity).
Should have excellent data processing speeds, efficient scaling, high fault tolerance, and minimal disruptions. 

##### Test performance for:
- Data ingestion and Throughout (how fast and how much data can be stored per second and more)
- Data Processing speed (Hadoop or Spark), how long transformation takes. For example MapReduce job metrics.
(- Component tests)

##### Possible tools:
- NoSQL: MongoDb, Zookeeper, HBase
- MapReduce: Hadoop, Hive, Pig, Cascading, Oozie, Kafka, S4, MapR, Flume
- Ingestion: 
    - Apache Kafka Performance Tool (kafka-producer-perf-test)
    - Apache JMeter, Apache Spark PerfTest
    - Apache Hadoop Benchmarks
    - Stream Bench
    - HiBench
    - YCSB (Yahoo! Cloud Serving Benchmark)
    - Tsung
- Metrics: Prometheus, Granatha

##### The big V:s of big data:
- Volume: the sheer amount of data;
- Velocity: how quickly a system can create and transport the data;
- Variety: how many different types of data;
- Veracity: the data accuracy and quality;
- Variability: how data flows vary and often change; and
- Value: the data beneficial to the business.


## 5. Collect logging metrics from performance tests
- Winston in Node.js (logging library)
- Store tenant logs in individual tenant database paths.
- Also general logs for the whole system.

##### Metrics to log:
- Total number of successful ingestions per tenant.
- Total number of failed ingestions per tenant.
- Average ingestion time per tenant.
- Total data size ingested per tenant.
- Overall success/failure rate across all tenants.
- Distribution of ingestion times and data sizes across all ingested files.
- Trends over time in ingestion performance metrics.
- Data Storage: How data is stored in different nodes
- Concurrency: How many threads can perform write and read operation
- Timeouts: Values for connection timeout, query timeout, etc.
- Map reduce performance: Sorts, merge, etc.
- Message queue: Message rate, size, etc.



# Part 2

## 1. mysimbdp-messagingsystem:
- Uses Apache Kafka: The cluster of brokers and api to create producers and consumers in mysimbdp developed in assignment one.
- Tenants can can send their data to be ingested and the mysimbdp-streamingestmanager schedules the ingestion jobs and calls mysimbdp-daas ingestion api.
- Mysimbdp-daas creates the producers and consumers based on the mysimbdp-streamingingestmanager scheduling in order to ingest data into mysimbdp-coredms (MongoDB).
- Lastly Kafka brokers send data to streamprocessor (Spark or Hadoop) that does the final processing to the data and ingests into mysimbdp-coredms (MongoDB).

#### Shared:
- Mysimbdp-coredms shared between all tenants.
- Mysimbdp-streamingestmanager is used to manage all tenants clientstreamingestingapp.
#### Individual:
- Tenants will have individual staging input directories defined in clientstreamingestingapp.
- Tenants will have individual nodes in the database for their data.
- Tenants will have individual kafka producers and consumers that are created when they send data to be ingested and the mysimbdp-streamingestmanager calls the api mysimbdp-daas.
- Tenants have individual service agreement contracts that define schemas for the client data.


# 2. mysimbdp-streamingingestmanager unbounded:
    - Tenant registry (either api paths in the database OR a configuration file within the program OR "tenant_id" in service-agreement.json)
    - Scheduler (Per tentant to schedule: Round-robin, Priority-based or Resource aware scheduling)
    - Executor (Execute ingestion pipeline for chosen tenants data)


## 3. clientstreamingestapp:
- read_input_files: read input files in client-staging-input-directory
- data_wrangler: add a new properties "client_id" and "client_name"
- ingestion: start ingesting to mysimbd-coredms by informing mysimbdp-streamingestmanager about the data to be sent.
- Data used for testing: null


## 4. clientstreamingestapp report:
- Report format is logs sent as JSON.
- Report sent to mysimbdp-streamingestmonitor that performs necessary actions based on report results.
- Mechanism is calling an api (HTTP POST request) of mysimbdp-streamingestmonitor and the report is sent every 10 minutes when the clientstreamingestapp is active.
- If inactive no report is sent.
- Report JSON schema:
```json
{
    "tenant_id": "string",
    "timestamp": "UTC",
    "average_ingestion_time_ms": "number",
    "total_ingested_data_size_bytes": "number",
    "number_of_messages": "number"
}
```

## 5. mysimbdp-streamingestmonitor receives the report from clientstreamingestapp:
- Clientstreamingestapp calls an api (HTTP POST request) of mysimbdp-streamingestmonitor and the report is sent every 10 minutes when the clientstreamingestapp is active.
- Mysimbdp-streamingestmonitor checks the database api path for these reports at /test/report with specific queryparameters of UTC of the previous 10 minutes.
- Mysimbdp-streamingestmonitor informs mysimbdp-streamingestmanager about the stated of the active clientstreamingestapp:s.
- Mysimbdp-streamingestmanager updates its scheduling based on this information.




# Part 3
## No software implementation only design ideas

Commit message:

Test created for part 1 and report and designs fully planned nad components almost done

reports/Assignment-2-Report.md, after:

# Assignment Report

# Part 1

## 1. Schemas for a set of constraints for tenant service agreement:
Platform only supports document-based data given as JSON due to that being the simplest and best way to store the data into mongoDB. IoT data from tenants supports the document-based model in a sensible way. Also this type of data is easy to update and analyze consistently.
Both tenants have to pay for uploading and maintaining data in mysimbdp-coredms (mongoDB).

Tenant 1 has a massive amount IoT sensors sending data periodically so they get a better price for the greater amount and have a higher priority. (payment group 1)
Tenant 1 wants to store all of the given data and the processed aggregate data, which leads to them requiring a lot more resources.
### tenant1_schema_constraints:
```json
{
    "tenantId": "1",
    "paymentGroup": "1",
    "data_file_constraints": {
        "file_format": "JSON",
        "max_num_of_files": 10,
        "max_file_size": "10MB"
    },
    "service_agreement_constraints": {
        "agreement_duration_months": 12,
        "cost_per_upload_MB_in_euro": 0.01,
        "cost_per_maintenance_MB_per_month_in_euro": 0.005,
        "service_availability_in_percent": 99
    }
}
```

Tenant 2 sends less IoT sensor data inconsistently so they have more restrictions and more expensive service costs and has lower priority than tenant 1. (payment group 2)
Tenant 2 wants to store only the aggregate data processed from the raw data which takes up less resources but generates less revenue.
### tenant2_schema_constraints:
```json
{
    "tenantId": "2",
    "paymentGroup": "2",
    "data_file_constraints": {
        "file_format": "JSON",
        "max_num_of_files": 5,
        "max_file_size": "5MB"
    },
    "service_agreement_constraints": {
        "agreement_duration_months": 6,
        "cost_per_upload_MB_in_euro": 0.02,
        "cost_per_maintenance_MB_per_month_in_euro": 0.01,
        "service_availability_in_percent": 95
    }
}
```


## 2. clientbatchingestapp:
- read_input_files: read input files in client-staging-input-directory
- data_wrangler: add a new properties "client_id" and "client_name"
- ingestion: start ingesting to mysimbd-coredms by informing mysimbdp-batchingestmanager about the data to be sent.
- processing: send data to be processed by batchprocessor of mysimbdp so aggregate data can also be stored.

- Receives call from batchingestmanager to request data from client-staging-input-directory.
- For tenant 1 only: Requests data from client-staging-input-directory and then sends data to mysimbdp-daas to be ingested to mysimbdp-coredms (mongoDB).
- For both tenants: Requests data from client-staging-input-directory and then sends data to mysimbdp-daas to be processed by batchprocessor to create aggregatedata from the data and then the aggregate data is ingested into mysimbdp-coredms (mongoDB).


## 3. mysimbdp-batchingestmanager bounded:
- Tenant registry (API path /agreements in the database originally uploaded from a configuration file within the program in service_contracts.json)
    - Retrieved from database in mysimbdp-coredms tenant/agreements where the service agreements for the tenants are identified with the tenant id:s.
- Scheduler: scheduleJobs (Scheduling of different tenants clientbatchingestapp:s is done based on the tenants service agreements payment group with 1 being the highest priority)
- Executor: callClientIngestionApp (Execute ingestion pipeline for chosen tenants data)

- Uses Apache Kafka: The cluster of brokers and api to create producers and consumers in mysimbdp developed in assignment one.
- Tenants can can send their data to be ingested and the mysimbdp-batchingestmanager schedules the ingestion jobs and calls mysimbdp-daas ingestion api.
- Data sent as large batches.
- Mysimbdp-daas creates the producers and consumers based on the mysimbdp-batchingestmanager scheduling in order to ingest data into mysimbdp-coredms (MongoDB).
- (Maybe batchProcessor with Spark or Hadoop after Kafka brokers to ingest processed data to into mysimbdp-coredms (MongoDB).)




## 4. Multi-tenancy model in mysimbdp:
The client first puts files to the input-directory withing the core application of the platform and the input directory calls the manager and the manager calls the clients ingestion app that calls the input-directory for the files.

Client-staging-input-directory check the tenants service agreement and checks if files inserted by the tenant follow the agreement. If yes the process is continue. If not the process is stopped.

#### Shared:
- Mysimbdp-coredms shared between all tenants.
- Mysimbdp-batchingestmanager is used to manage all tenants mysimbdp-clientbatchingestingapp.
- Client-staging-input-directory is shared and data is differentiated to their own sections by the tenant id. A part of mysimbdp.
#### Individual:
- Tenants will have individual nodes in the database for their data. Stored in /tenant/{tenantId}.
- Tenants will have individual kafka producers and consumers that are created when they send data to be ingested and aggregated by calling mysimbdp-daas.
- Tenants have individual service agreement contracts that define schemas for the client data. Stored in /agreements.
- Tenants pay when storing data to and maintaining data in mysimbdp-coredms based on their specific service agreement.
- When a tenant no longer wants to use the service and pay the data maintenance fees their data will be deleted from mysimbdp-coredms in their specific node. Path /tenant/{tenantId}.

Performance for ingestion tests for both tenants individually and together (with failures).
Tenants have different constraints.
Show example of data not being ingested due to violation of constraints in the service agreement.
Maximum amount of data per second in tests (Max system load capacity).
Should have excellent data processing speeds, efficient scaling, high fault tolerance, and minimal disruptions.

##### Test performance for:
- Data ingestion and Throughout (how fast and how much data can be stored per second and more)
- Data Processing speed (Hadoop or Spark), how long transformation takes. For example MapReduce job metrics.
(- Component tests)

##### Possible tools:
- NoSQL: MongoDb, Zookeeper, HBase
- MapReduce: Hadoop, Hive, Pig, Cascading, Oozie, Kafka, S4, MapR, Flume
- Ingestion: 
    - Apache Kafka Performance Tool (kafka-producer-perf-test)
    - Apache JMeter, Apache Spark PerfTest
    - Apache Hadoop Benchmarks
    - Stream Bench
    - HiBench
    - YCSB (Yahoo! Cloud Serving Benchmark)
    - Tsung
- Metrics: Prometheus, Granatha

##### The big V:s of big data:
- Volume: the sheer amount of data;
- Velocity: how quickly a system can create and transport the data;
- Variety: how many different types of data;
- Veracity: the data accuracy and quality;
- Variability: how data flows vary and often change; and
- Value: the data beneficial to the business.


## 5. Collect logging metrics from performance tests
- Winston in Node.js (logging library)
- Store tenant logs in individual tenant database paths.
- Also general logs for the whole system.

##### Metrics to log:
- Total number of successful ingestions per tenant.
- Total number of failed ingestions per tenant.
- Average ingestion time per tenant.
- Total data size ingested per tenant.
- Overall success/failure rate across all tenants.
- Distribution of ingestion times and data sizes across all ingested files.
- Trends over time in ingestion performance metrics.
- Data Storage: How data is stored in different nodes
- Concurrency: How many threads can perform write and read operation
- Timeouts: Values for connection timeout, query timeout, etc.
- Map reduce performance: Sorts, merge, etc.
- Message queue: Message rate, size, etc.



# Part 2

## 1. mysimbdp-messagingsystem:
- Uses Apache Kafka: The cluster of brokers and api to create producers and consumers in mysimbdp developed in assignment one.
- Tenants can can send their data to be ingested and the mysimbdp-streamingestmanager schedules the ingestion jobs and calls mysimbdp-daas ingestion api.
- Mysimbdp-daas creates the producers and consumers based on the mysimbdp-streamingingestmanager scheduling in order to ingest data into mysimbdp-coredms (MongoDB).
- Lastly Kafka brokers send data to streamprocessor (Spark or Hadoop) that does the final processing to the data and ingests into mysimbdp-coredms (MongoDB).

#### Shared:
- Mysimbdp-coredms shared between all tenants.
- Mysimbdp-streamingestmanager is used to manage all tenants clientstreamingestingapp.
#### Individual:
- Tenants will have individual staging input directories defined in clientstreamingestingapp.
- Tenants will have individual nodes in the database for their data.
- Tenants will have individual kafka producers and consumers that are created when they send data to be ingested and the mysimbdp-streamingestmanager calls the api mysimbdp-daas.
- Tenants have individual service agreement contracts that define schemas for the client data.


# 2. mysimbdp-streamingingestmanager unbounded:
    - Tenant registry (either api paths in the database OR a configuration file within the program OR "tenant_id" in service-agreement.json)
    - Scheduler (Per tentant to schedule: Round-robin, Priority-based or Resource aware scheduling)
    - Executor (Execute ingestion pipeline for chosen tenants data)


## 3. clientstreamingestapp:
- read_input_files: read input files in client-staging-input-directory
- data_wrangler: add a new properties "client_id" and "client_name"
- ingestion: start ingesting to mysimbd-coredms by informing mysimbdp-streamingestmanager about the data to be sent.
- Data used for testing: null


## 4. clientstreamingestapp report:
- Report format is logs sent as JSON.
- Report sent to mysimbdp-streamingestmonitor that performs necessary actions based on report results.
- Mechanism is calling an api (HTTP POST request) of mysimbdp-streamingestmonitor and the report is sent every 10 minutes when the clientstreamingestapp is active.
- If inactive no report is sent.
- Report JSON schema:
```json
{
    "tenant_id": "string",
    "timestamp": "UTC",
    "average_ingestion_time_ms": "number",
    "total_ingested_data_size_bytes": "number",
    "number_of_messages": "number"
}
```

## 5. mysimbdp-streamingestmonitor receives the report from clientstreamingestapp:
- Clientstreamingestapp calls an api (HTTP POST request) of mysimbdp-streamingestmonitor and the report is sent every 10 minutes when the clientstreamingestapp is active.
- Mysimbdp-streamingestmonitor checks the database api path for these reports at /test/report with specific queryparameters of UTC of the previous 10 minutes.
- Mysimbdp-streamingestmonitor informs mysimbdp-streamingestmanager about the stated of the active clientstreamingestapp:s.
- Mysimbdp-streamingestmanager updates its scheduling based on this information.




# Part 3
## No software implementation only design ideas
